docs: Provide Azure Data Explorer Scaler (#658)
kedacore/keda-docs: content/docs/2.7/scalers/azure-data-explorer.md

+++
title = "Azure Data Explorer"
layout = "scaler"
availability = "v2.7+"
maintainer = "Community"
description = "Scale applications based on Azure Data Explorer query result."
go_file = "azure_data_explorer_scaler"
+++

### Trigger Specification

This specification describes the `azure-data-explorer` trigger that scales based on an Azure Data Explorer query result.

```yaml
triggers:
- type: azure-data-explorer
  metadata:

>     podIdentity: "azure" # Provide either podIdentity or aad app creds. can use TriggerAuthentication as well

Reviewer: We should leave this out as this should only be supported through TriggerAuthentication, sorry

```suggestion
```

    clientId: "AAD_APP_CLIENT_ID" # Provide either podIdentity or aad app creds. can use TriggerAuthentication as well
    clientSecret: "AAD_APP_SECRET" # Provide either podIdentity or aad app creds. can use TriggerAuthentication as well
    tenantId: "AAD_APP_TENANT_ID" # Provide either podIdentity or aad app creds. can use TriggerAuthentication as well
    databaseName: "DATA_EXPLORER_DATABASE_NAME"

>     endpoint: "https://<ClusterName>.<Region>.kusto.windows.net"

Reviewer: Does this mean we only support public cloud?

Author: Nope, I changed it

>     clientId: "AAD_APP_CLIENT_ID" # Provide either podIdentity or aad app creds. can use TriggerAuthentication as well
>     clientSecret: "AAD_APP_SECRET" # Provide either podIdentity or aad app creds. can use TriggerAuthentication as well
>     tenantId: "AAD_APP_TENANT_ID" # Provide either podIdentity or aad app creds. can use TriggerAuthentication as well
>     databaseName: "DATA_EXPLORER_DATABASE_NAME"
>     endpoint: "https://<ClusterName>.<Region>.kusto.windows.net"
>     query: |
>       StormEvents
>       | summarize StormCount = count(), TypeOfStorms = dcount(EventType) by State
>       | top 1 by StormCount desc
>     threshold: "1000"

Reviewer: Just reshuffling in logical order
```suggestion
    endpoint: "https://<ClusterName>.<Region>.kusto.windows.net"
    databaseName: "DATA_EXPLORER_DATABASE_NAME"
    query: |
      StormEvents
      | summarize StormCount = count(), TypeOfStorms = dcount(EventType) by State
      | top 1 by StormCount desc
    threshold: "1000"
    tenantId: "AAD_APP_TENANT_ID" # Optional. Required when using AD application-based authentication
    clientId: "AAD_APP_CLIENT_ID" # Optional. Required when using AD application-based authentication
    clientSecret: "AAD_APP_SECRET" # Optional. Required when using AD application-based authentication
```

>     metricName: "DATA_EXPLORER_METRIC_NAME" # Optional

Reviewer 2: remove this

    # Alternatively, you can use existing environment variables to read aad app creds from:
    clientIdFromEnv: AAD_APP_CLIENT_ID_ENV_VAR_NAME # Optional. You can use this instead of `clientId` parameter.
    clientSecretFromEnv: AAD_APP_SECRET_ENV_VAR_NAME # Optional. You can use this instead of `clientSecret` parameter.
    tenantIdFromEnv: AAD_APP_TENANT_ID_ENV_VAR_NAME # Optional. You can use this instead of `tenantId` parameter.
```

> This scaler is backed by Azure Data Explorer Goland SDK. Please see [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-explorer/kusto/api/golang/kusto-golang-client-library) page
> for further details.

Reviewer: I don't think this is really important for end-users, no?
```suggestion
```

> **Parameter list:**

Reviewer: Can you add `query` as well please?

- `clientId` - Id of the application from your Azure AD Application/service principal. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest) link to create your service principal.
- `clientSecret` - Password from your Azure AD Application/service principal.
- `tenantId` - Id of the Azure Active Directory tenant. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/account?view=azure-cli-latest#az-account-show) link to 
retrieve your tenant id. 
- `podIdentity` - [Azure Active Directory pod-managed identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/use-azure-ad-pod-identity) can be used. Only "azure" is supported. 
- `databaseName` - The name of the Data Explorer Database to query. Use the [Azure Command Line Interface](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) to run `az kusto database list` to see a list of available databases in your cluster.
- `endpoint` - The endpoint to query your Data Explorer Cluster. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/kusto/cluster?view=azure-cli-latest#az-kusto-cluster-show) link to get your cluster's endpoint.

> - `metricName` - Name to assign to the metric. (Optional, if not set KEDA will generate a name based on the database name)

Reviewer 2: remove `metricName` param

> Provide either podIdentity or aad app creds (clientId, clientSecret and tenantId).
> - `clientId` - Id of the application from your Azure AD Application/service principal. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest) link to create your service principal.
> - `clientSecret` - Password from your Azure AD Application/service principal.
> - `tenantId` - Id of the Azure Active Directory tenant. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/account?view=azure-cli-latest#az-account-show) link to 
> retrieve your tenant id. 
> - `podIdentity` - [Azure Active Directory pod-managed identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/use-azure-ad-pod-identity) can be used. Only "azure" is supported. 
> - `databaseName` - The name of the Data Explorer Database to query. Use the [Azure Command Line Interface](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) to run `az kusto database list` to see a list of available databases in your cluster.
> - `endpoint` - The endpoint to query your Data Explorer Cluster. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/kusto/cluster?view=azure-cli-latest#az-kusto-cluster-show) link to get your cluster's endpoint.
> - `metricName` - Name to assign to the metric. (Optional, if not set KEDA will generate a name based on the database name)
> - `threshold` - Value that is used as a threshold to calculate # of pods for scale target.

Reviewer: Changing logical ordering and removing podIdentity
```suggestion
- `endpoint` - The endpoint to query your Data Explorer Cluster. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/kusto/cluster?view=azure-cli-latest#az-kusto-cluster-show) link to get your cluster's endpoint.
- `databaseName` - The name of the Data Explorer Database to query. Use the [Azure Command Line Interface](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) to run `az kusto database list` to see a list of available databases in your cluster.
- `threshold` - Value that is used as a threshold to calculate # of pods for scale target.
- `tenantId` - Id of the Azure Active Directory tenant. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/account?view=azure-cli-latest#az-account-show) link to 
retrieve your tenant id.
- `clientId` - Id of the application from your Azure AD Application/service principal. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest) link to create your service principal.
- `clientSecret` - Password from your Azure AD Application/service principal.
- `metricName` - Name to assign to the metric. (Optional, if not set KEDA will generate a name based on the database name)
```

Reviewer: Can you align with https://github.com/kedacore/keda-docs#writing-documentation-for-a-scaler as well please?

Feel free to move the `Follow this link` items to a sub-item of the list and rename it to `Use this guide`

The authentication parameters could be provided using environmental variables, instead of setting them directly in metadata. Here is a list of parameters you can use to retrieve values from environment variables:

- `tenantIdFromEnv` - An environmental variable name, that stores Azure Active Directory tenant id. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/account?view=azure-cli-latest#az-account-show) link to retrieve your tenant id. (Optional)
- `clientIdFromEnv` - An environmental variable name, that stores Application id from your Azure AD Application/service principal. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest) link to create your service principal. (Optional)
- `clientSecretFromEnv` - An environmental variable name, that stores password from your Azure AD Application/service principal. (Optional)

### Query Guidance

> It is important to design your query to return 1 row. A good practice is to add "| limit 1" at the end of your query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to design your query to return 1 row. A good practice is to add `| limit 1` at the end of your query.
```

> Data types of your query result should be: real, int or long. Other data types are not supported. Later, during runtime, your data will be converted to int64.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only supported data types for your query result are `real`, `int` or `long`. Later, during runtime, your data will be converted to int64.
```

Reviewer: Is "Later, during runtime, your data will be converted to int64." really important to people? I don't think so but you might have a concern here?

> Be careful with setting up "pollingInterval" and long running queries. Test your query before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be careful with defining `pollingInterval` and using long-running queries. Make sure to test your query before using it.
```

### Authentication Parameters

> You can use the `TriggerAuthentication` CRD to configure the authentication by providing a set of Azure Active Directory credentials or by using pod identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `TriggerAuthentication` CRD to configure the authentication by providing a set of Azure Active Directory credentials or by using pod identity.

The AD identity that will be used requires `DatabaseViewer` permissions to the particular database on the Azure Data Explorer cluster.

> 💡You can use [this guide ](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/kusto/database?view=azure-cli-latest#az-kusto-database-add-principal) to assign your principal with the right access permissions through the Azure CLI.
```

**Credential based authentication:**

- `clientId` - Application id from your Azure AD Application/service principal. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest) link to create your service principal.
- `clientSecret` - Password from your Azure AD Application/service principal.
- `tenantId` - Azure Active Directory tenant id. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/account?view=azure-cli-latest#az-account-show) link to retrieve your tenant id.

> The principal will need `DatabaseViewer` role to  query metrics from the Data Explorer Cluster. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/kusto/database?view=azure-cli-latest#az-kusto-database-add-principal) to assign your principal with the right access permissions through az cli.

Reviewer: Consolidated above
```suggestion
```

**Pod identity based authentication:**

[Azure Active Directory pod-managed identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/use-azure-ad-pod-identity) can be used.

> The identity that being used by pod identity will need `DatabaseViewer` role to particular database query from the Data Explorer Cluster. Follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/kusto/database?view=azure-cli-latest#az-kusto-database-add-principal) to assign your principal with the right access permissions through az cli.

Reviewer: Consolidating with AD-based app auth
```suggestion
```

> in place of credential based authentication. The following section contains an example of a `TriggerAuthentication` using pod identity.

Reviewer: Is this intentional?

### Example

The following example illustrates the use of a TriggerAuthentication to connect to Data Explorer.
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: azure-data-explorer-secret
data:
  clientId: <clientId> # Base64 encoded 
  clientSecret: <clientSecret> # Base64 encoded 
  tenantId: <tenantId> # Base64 encoded 
---
apiVersion: keda.sh/v1alpha1
kind: TriggerAuthentication
metadata:
  name: azure-data-explorer-trigger-auth
spec:
  secretTargetRef:
    - parameter: clientId
      name: azure-data-explorer-secret
      key: clientId
    - parameter: clientSecret
      name: azure-data-explorer-secret
      key: clientSecret
    - parameter: tenantId
      name: azure-data-explorer-secret
      key: tenantId
  # or Pod Identity, kind: Secret is not required in case of pod Identity
  podIdentity:

>       provider: azure

Reviewer: I would choose one or the other, otherwise people might be confused.

Feel free to create two samples similar to https://keda.sh/docs/2.6/scalers/azure-log-analytics/#example if you want

---
apiVersion: keda.sh/v1alpha1
kind: ScaledObject
metadata:
  name: azure-data-explorer-scaler
spec:
  scaleTargetRef:
  kind: StatefulSet # Optional: Default: Deployment, Available Options: ReplicaSet Deployment, DaemonSet, StatefulSet
    name: azure-data-explorer-example
  pollingInterval: 30
  cooldownPeriod: 45
  minReplicaCount: 0
  maxReplicaCount: 10
  triggers:
  - type: azure-data-explorer
    metadata:
      databaseName: Weather
      endpoint: https://<ClusterName>.<Region>.kusto.windows.net
      metricName: Storm-Events
      query: |
        StormEvents
        | summarize StormCount = count(), TypeOfStorms = dcount(EventType) by State
        | top 1 by StormCount desc
    threshold: "1000"
    authenticationRef:
      name: azure-data-explorer-trigger-auth
```

> The following example illustrates the use of environment variables to connect to Application Insights.

Reviewer: Is this correct? Because it looks identical, no?

+++
title = "Azure Data Explorer"
layout = "scaler"
availability = "v2.7+"
maintainer = "Community"
description = "Scale applications based on Azure Data Explorer query result."
go_file = "azure_data_explorer_scaler"
+++

### Trigger Specification

This specification describes the `azure-data-explorer` trigger that scales based on an Azure Data Explorer query result.

```yaml
triggers:
- type: azure-data-explorer
  metadata:
    endpoint: "DATA_EXPLORER_ENDPOINT"

>     databaseName: "DATA_EXPLORER_DATABASE_NAME"

Reviewer: Yes because it gives the impression that these are env variable names; maybe just use examples? It's ok to use `keda` as a resource name if need be.

We might want to update the LA docs as well then.

>     databaseName: "DATA_EXPLORER_DATABASE_NAME"

Author: done. 
I don't mind to do the same changes for Log Analytics, just LMK if you think it should be in different PR or part of this one.

    query: |
      StormEvents
      | summarize StormCount = count(), TypeOfStorms = dcount(EventType) by State
      | top 1 by StormCount desc
    threshold: "1000"
    tenantId: AAD_APP_TENANT_ID # Can use TriggerAuthentication as well
    clientId: AAD_APP_CLIENT_ID # Can use TriggerAuthentication as well

>     clientSecret: AAD_APP_SECRET # Can use TriggerAuthentication as well

Reviewer: This looks like environment variables but I presume these should be concrete values, no?

Author: done

The only supported data types for your query result are `real`, `int` or `long`.

Be careful with defining `pollingInterval` and using long-running queries. Make sure to test your query before using it.

### Authentication Parameters

You can use the `TriggerAuthentication` CRD to configure the authentication by providing a set of Azure Active Directory credentials or by using pod identity.

The AD identity that will be used requires `DatabaseViewer` role to query metrics from the Data Explorer Cluster.

💡You can use [this guide ](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/kusto/database?view=azure-cli-latest#az-kusto-database-add-principal) to assign your principal with the right access permissions through the Azure CLI.

**Credential based authentication:**

- `clientId` - Id of the Azure AD application. Use [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest) guide to create your service principal.
- `clientSecret` - Password of the Azure AD application.
- `tenantId` - Id of the Azure AD tenant. Use [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/account?view=azure-cli-latest#az-account-show) guide to retrieve your tenant id.

> 
> 

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion

```

[Azure Active Directory pod-managed identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/use-azure-ad-pod-identity) can be used.

### Examples

> ### Use TriggerAuthentication with Azure AD Application.

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
### Use TriggerAuthentication with Azure AD Application
```

> ### Example

Reviewer: Would you mind aligning with the approach from https://github.com/kedacore/keda-docs/pull/660 for providing multiple samples please?

---
apiVersion: keda.sh/v1alpha1
kind: TriggerAuthentication
metadata:
  name: azure-data-explorer-trigger-auth
spec:
  secretTargetRef:
    - parameter: clientId
      name: azure-data-explorer-secret # Required. Refers to the name of the secret
      key: clientId 
    - parameter: clientSecret
      name: azure-data-explorer-secret
      key: clientSecret
    - parameter: tenantId
      name: azure-data-explorer-secret
      key: tenantId
---
apiVersion: keda.sh/v1alpha1
kind: ScaledObject
metadata:
  name: azure-data-explorer-scaler
spec:
  scaleTargetRef:
  kind: StatefulSet # Optional: Default: Deployment, Available Options: ReplicaSet Deployment, DaemonSet, StatefulSet
    name: azure-data-explorer-example
  pollingInterval: 30
  cooldownPeriod: 45
  minReplicaCount: 0
  maxReplicaCount: 10
  triggers:
  - type: azure-data-explorer
    metadata:
      databaseName: Weather
      endpoint: https://keda.eastus.kusto.windows.net
      query: |
        StormEvents
        | summarize StormCount = count() by State
        | top 1 by StormCount desc
    threshold: "1000"
    authenticationRef:
      name: azure-data-explorer-trigger-auth
```

> ### Use TriggerAuthentication with Azure Pod Identity.

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
### Use TriggerAuthentication with Azure Pod Identity
```
